Title:
Platforms and Systems to Bridge the Digital and Physical World

Description:
Researchers, policy makers, citizen scientists, and curious individuals have
an innumerable array of questions about the world around them.  How does
physical proximity affect disease transmission?  What changes would have the
greatest impact on the carbon footprint of an urban environment?  What is the
historical air quality like for asthmatics in the neighborhoods where I am
shopping for houses? This course is about the design and implementation of
platforms and systems capable of capturing the data to answer such questions.

Formally, this is the study of embedded systems and wireless sensor networks.
These are computing systems that are deployed widely in the physical world,
which creates unique constraints in their physical size, deployment,
management, communication, energy availability, and operation. We will begin
with a history of impactful deployments, then study each of the pieces in
turn, both traditional sensor architectures and more exotic designs such as
batteryless systems, backscatter communication, and how to do machine learning
with less than 1 MB of memory.

During the last week of the course, we will shift focus a bit from technology
development. Often advances in embedded systems can lead to unexpected leaps
in capability: modern RF techniques can build camera-like structures that
"see-through" walls to capture occupancy, gestures, or even biometrics like
respiration and heart rate; my PhD work helped build energy-harvesting,
wireless (optical) cameras about a cubic millimeter in size and acoustic
recorders small and thin enough to be imperceptibly embedded in thick paper.
We will finish the term with thoughts on the ethical implications of recent
and future advancements, how policy might encode social norms and
expectations, and what technological solutions could enforce these policies.

The intended audience of this course is PhD students or masters students who
are interested in pursuing a PhD in the future. The course will also include a
quarter-long project that will result in a draft of a conference-style paper.

Required Knowledge:
Equivalent of an undergraduate degree in any of Electrical Engineering,
Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Data Science, Information Science, or
similar.  This is a vertical slice through the computing stack, and we will
touch on topics from programming languages and distributed systems down to
circuits and wireless. An enthusiasm and willingness to learn a little about a
lot of new things is far more important than any one specific background.

Recommended Preparation for Those Without Required Knowledge:
Try playing with some hardware! A Raspberry Pi Zero is $5, various Arduino
boards run $10-30, or check out the tutorials and hardware from places like
maker.io -- or stop by my office (3202 CSE) starting ~Dec 9 and I'll happily
loan you something to play with over the holidays. If you'd prefer something
more textbook-y, leeseshia.org is a good free book (though a bit more of a
formal methods take than this course).

Link to Past Course: N/A


Enforced Prerequisite: No

Enrollment Limit: 30

Instructor Managing Enrollment: No
